--- Page 1 ---
PROSTHETICS AND ORTHOTICS AT ASSESSMENT TEMPLATE
For AT supports of NDIS AT Complexity Level 2, 3 and 4.
PART 1 - Details
NDIS PARTICIPANT DETAILS
Mr. Scott LairdName:
16/8/1994DOB:
8 Sherborne Street
North Tamworth, NSW, 2340
Address:
0431 478 238Phone:
430372789NDIS Number:
Alternative Contact/Guardian:
Participant’s NDIS Contact infomation
Jackie Laird
0431 478 238
jackie.lai
AT ASSESSOR DETAILS
Jonathan MaddenName:
B.Ped& B.PodQualiﬁcations:
C.Ped CM AuPosition:
oﬃce@walkeasy.com.au
Email:
6766 3153Phone:
 4050009706
Prescriber
Number:
2/7/2018Date (s) of initial assessment: 31/7/2018Date of Report:
PART 2 - Participant’s Goals and AT assessment request
Walk Easy PedorthicsCompany Name:
Scott has signiﬁcantly reduced mobility which is part of his overall disability which occurs in Cockayne
Syndrome. Without the aid of his specialised footwear & custom orthoses Scott cannot weight-bear
independently & the alternative would be conﬁned to a wheelchair. Scott's carer's (mother Jackie &
father Craig) want Scott to be able to continue to walk short distances, continue social interaction at
his day programmes & be able to undertake his favourite activity of indoor lawn bowls, regardless of
this physical disability. With these devices Scott's parents (carers) know that Scott can have a sense
of independence and improved mobility which is the current goal which will give Scott an improved
quality of life, again regardless of his disability.

--- Page 2 ---
PROSTHETICS AND ORTHOTICS AT ASSESSMENT TEMPLATE
For AT supports of NDIS AT Complexity Level 2, 3 and 4.
PART 3 - Evaluation / assessment
A. Background
B. Functional Assessment ﬁndings
What are the applicant’s measurements? 40KG128cmHeight: Weight:
C. Current AT in use: review where related to goal, including environmental considerations
Section 1 – Current AT relevant to goal
Type of AT Usage Participant’s report of suitability Does it need reassessment?
AFO Boots daily increased independence
Are there unmet needs or alternative interventions identiﬁed by participant / AT Assessor?
No.
Scott lives with his Mum & Dad and in a privately rented home. Mum and Dad
are the only form of informal support, they support Scott's with all personal care
and activities of daily living.  Scott requires to have someone with me at all time
due to safety reasons.
Monday to Friday.
Scott cannot weight-bear on his feet without boots on, so Mum has to supported
Scott to transfer from bed to my wheel chair. For showering etc.
Scott has carers at a ratio of 1:1 due to safety reasons.
Due to Scott's disability he cannot weight-bear or mobilise without these devices which has significant implications for his
quality of life and that of his family. Scott needs the equipment to independently walk and allow him to participate in
activities of daily living, rather than be confined to a wheelchair. On physical gait assessment (assisted) the spasticity of
Scott's muscles do not allow him to proceed through the normal gait cycle motions of heel strike, midstance and propulsion.
The spasticity in his tricep surae (calf muscles) forces Scott to severely laterally weight-bear & toe walk. In additon his
rearfoot is in a rigid varus position bilaterally which adds to his ankle instability and abnormal foot shape, which cannot be
accomodated in normal footwear (abnormal foot shape diagnosed clinically on gait assessment). On assessment Scott has
physical changes in his lower limbs & an abnormal gait cycle. However most importantly if Scott is not provided with the
equipment his quality of life will deteriorate as he will have no sense of independence. Scott would need to be confined to a
wheelchair. The implications extend to his carers. Jackie (Mum) is already reporting a back injury due to the force required to
transfer Scott. If this equipment is received, regardless of Scott's disability his life will be improved as well as giving him a
sense of independence which is so fundamental to Scott and his family. Scott is currently using Bivalve AFO boots and custom
moulded orthotics but are well worn out due to the forces at the lateral foot and forefoot.

--- Page 3 ---
PROSTHETICS AND ORTHOTICS AT ASSESSMENT TEMPLATE
For AT supports of NDIS AT Complexity Level 2, 3 and 4.
PART 4 - Exploration of Options
A. Evaluation of options
Circle
preferred
option
Describe features/functions
of AT solutions and other
options trialled that make
goal achievement possible
Trialled (T) or
Considered
(C)? Include
trial details
Describe why it was
not considered
suitable (not
applicable for the
preferred option)
Estimated
cost (include
training1)
PART 5 - Recommended Option:
A. State all the supports required (noting reduction or addition) for the recommended
option including non AT supports and environmental modiﬁcations.
Do AT Assessor and Participant agree on Recommended option? Comments:
B. Explain the evidence for the recommended option as the most suitable/appropriate
alternative which will facilitate achievement of the participant’s goal, compared to others
considered.
Custom made Boots to ﬁt Scott's complex footwear requirements.
YES
The physical implications of Scotts disability include inability to walk. On assessment (assisted) I note an abnormal gait cycle,
foot position & ankle instability. For these reasons Scott is unable to be accomodated in regular footwear as he need extra
support that off the shelf footwear cannot offer. Regular footwear would not be able to provide the support required for Scott
to independently mobilise, Custom made bivalve Ankle Foot Othotic boots and custom moulded orthotics are essential to allow
Scott to weight-bear independently, rather than be confined to a wheelchair. The cast moulded orthotics are vital due to his
ankle instability & plantar flexed 1st metatasal & will assist to rectify the severity of toe walking & accomodate the
abnormal foot shape, again allowing Scott to achieve a sense of independence & quality of life.
no other solution as functional goal
of independent transfers and
mobility can only be achieved by
suitable foot wear.

--- Page 4 ---
PROSTHETICS AND ORTHOTICS AT ASSESSMENT TEMPLATE
For AT supports of NDIS AT Complexity Level 2, 3 and 4.
C. Are there any other factors that need resolution in order to implement the above?
D. If there are any additional features, customisation or speciﬁcation recommended that
are considered to be above the minimum or standard level of this support for reasonable
and necessary funding, provide the speciﬁc evidence/ clinical justiﬁcation for these
E. Measuring success:
What are the expected outcomes of providing this recommended support?
E.g. speciﬁc goals achieved, other supports changed/reduced, etc.
How will you measure whether these outcomes have been achieved?
How will these be funded?
NO
Scott requires 2  pair of boots a year, this is due to Scott being a active young man who is on the go
all the time. He just wares his boots out. In his next pair I will be adding more reinforcing over the toe
area to try to stop some of the wear. Hoping this will help, but is a trail at this stage.
Scott has been wearing Custom bivalve boots for over 5 years
Regular reviews and modiﬁcations to soles to keep him as balanced as posable.
When will you measure these outcomes?
NDIS
4 weeks after getting the boots and every 3 months after that

--- Page 5 ---
PROSTHETICS AND ORTHOTICS AT ASSESSMENT TEMPLATE
For AT supports of NDIS AT Complexity Level 2, 3 and 4.
(Capacity building) Professional assessment, speciﬁcation, ﬁtting and training
PART 6 – Speciﬁcation of Recommended P&O solution/device
Activity Quantity (hr)Detail
Clinical Assessment
Liaise with other health
professionals
Device
speciﬁcation/measurement
Fitting and adjustment
Client education
Ongoing review/s (Identify
intervals for ﬁrst two years)
review of boots by Pedorthist
liaison between two
(Capital) Labour
Activity Quantity (hr)Detail
Fabrication/modiﬁcation
Fitting/s
Administration
Please see attached quote below
EXTRA FEATURES
Does the participant agree to pay for these from their own (not NDIS)
funds?
Item(s) Cost estimate

--- Page 6 ---
PROSTHETICS AND ORTHOTICS AT ASSESSMENT TEMPLATE
For AT supports of NDIS AT Complexity Level 2, 3 and 4.
Which supplier does the participant wish to use for the service booking for ongoing
maintenance and repair of the recommended AT?
The participant must be provided with maintenance and servicing information for their
prosthetic/orthotic to remain in good working order. Specify who is to do this and when?
Time from funding approval to expected orthosis/prosthesis provision (weeks):
Is the participant at safety or other risk while waiting for the orthosis/prosthesis? Give details
I certify that I have evidence that I meet the NDIA expectations of provider suitability
(including understanding of the current NDIS Act, Rules and Operational Guidelines) to
assess this type of assistive technology and associated supports at the level of complexity
required by this participant and will provide such evidence to the NDIA if requested.
The above speciﬁcation is consistent with the preferred option agreed between the
participant and the AT Assessor.
Signature of AT Assessor Date:
31 Jul 2018
Scott will require modiﬁcations every 3 - 4 months i.e new soles due to Scott being a very active
young man.
4 weeks

--- Page 7 ---
PROSTHETICS AND ORTHOTICS AT ASSESSMENT TEMPLATE
For AT supports of NDIS AT Complexity Level 2, 3 and 4.
Images:
DorsalImage 1:
 ToImage 2:
AFOImage 3:
 Tongue AFOImage 4:
BootsImage 5:
 Tongue AFOImage 6:

--- Page 8 ---
Scott Laird
40 Orley Drive
Tamworth
NSW 2340
Dear Scott
<Unrelated Table>
Walk Easy Pedorthics Australia Pty LTD
P: PO Box 210, Tamworth, NSW 2340     |      A:  21 Dowe St,  Tamworth, NSW 2340
Ph: 02 6766-3153
Quote Date
1/8/2018
RE: Mr. Scott Laird
DOB:  16/8/1994
NDIS Quote 430372789
Please ﬁnd following Quote for the supply and fabrication of custom
made cast footwear including rocker sole modiﬁcations, custom
moulded orthoses & Carbon Fibre AFO’s built in. Made from a
plaster casting of both feet .
$5850.00
Ongoing repairs and modiﬁcations every  3 -4 months.
Cost per repair
$195.00
$6045.00Total: (GST Ex)
This quote includes casting, fabrication, ﬁtting and check ups for 3 months.
This quote is valid for 60 days Our payment terms are strictly 7 days
www.walkeasypedorthics.com.au  |  admin@walkeasypedorthics.com.au  |  A.B.N 63 612 528 971
Craig Laird
CPed CM au
